## Agenda

We're having a 1h meeting, with potentially a fair number of participants, so we'll have to keep the agenda short and actionable to make the best of everyone's time.

- Intro (5 mins, Théophane)
  - Let's raise handle and use reactions

### Presentation of each team: goal and areas of responsibility (25 mins, all)
- @infinisil: Nixpkgs architecture team
    - Created 1½y ago, to make Nixpkgs less of a mess and press the merge button on big PRs
    - Example of things in scope: Big structural and foundational changes. Things not in scope: Packages updates
- @raitobezarius: (virtual) Nixpkgs team
  - Representing people who are working daily on parts of Nixpkgs
- @hexchen: NixCon team / bootstrap project lead
  - What does the NixCon team do, multiple regions?
  - Working on more scalable structure without burnout
- @nbathum: "old" NixCon team, NixCon in a transitionary period
- @proofconstruction: Docs team
  - Often working on nix.dev, Nix and Nixpkgs manual
- @edolstra: Nix team
  - Maintaining nix package manager and language
  - 6-person team, 2 meetings per week, meeting notes, project tracker
- @risicle: Security team
  - Exact responsibilities not defined, recent reboot
  - Recently some de-facto members were officially added
  - Have a VINCE account but not heavily included in many upstream security issues
  - Works together with Nixpkgs team, post CVE's to get people to fix it in Nixpkgs, but usually bump & backport fixes ourselves
  - Also work on e.g. hardening features
  - @theophane: Security team too small? (not sure?)
    - Kind of
    - @raitobezarius: Managing security tracker to make CVE hunting easier. Both tooling and human aspect could use help
- @tomberek: RFC Steering committee
  - Paperwork and administration of the RFC process
  - Assigning shepherds, preventing stalls
- @vcunat: Build infra team
  - Hydra, binary cache and co.
  - There's a subteam for non-critical infra with less trust - that's Julien's below
  - Few active people, mostly me being active, but don't know the infra too well
- Julien Malka: Non-critical infra team
  - Goal to self-host more community services
  - Allow people to host useful tools on the official infra
  - Recent examples: first-time-contribution tagger, self-hosted Bitwarden
- @figsoda: NixOS (release) team
  - 23.11/24.05
- @ronef: NixOS Foundation
  - Support NixCon, S3, relations, treasury, funding and distribution
- @tomberek: Marketing team
  - Primarily lead by @rok
  - Website, social media, newsletter, blog
  - Current goal: Make it easier to maintain the website
- Not represented: Moderation team

### Listing the main points in the ecosystem which are lacking maintenance and deciding on the way to fix it (20 mins, all)

- In particular, look at the projects under https://github.com/NixOS 
  - Raito: Propose to perform public archival of projects we know for sure they won't be maintained.

* @raitobezarius: Chat platform
  - Matrix log viewer (originally by @andir)
    - Kind of broken, Matrix discussions aren't discoverable
    - @infinisil: Not our own maintained logs
    - @raitobezarius: Need to decide what to do, keep it or leave it?
    - @theophane: Nobody taking care of Matrix infra, hosted on EMS
  - Matrix discovery capabilities (knowing which channels to join, etc.)
    - Lots of channels, hard to know which channels to join
    - Discussions in "Matrix Discussions/Suggestions" room
    - Need to have a standard for curating rooms
  - Mjölnir, the moderation platform (?, last commit: 4 August)
    - Tool used by moderation team
    - Not well maintained, isn't working as expected, can take long to make work
* CI
  - Hydra (the software)
    - Build infra, high priority
    - Nobody responsible, nobody working on it
    - Two parts
      - Perl frontend
        - Reasonably well maintained
        - Trivial PRs aren't processed any more
      - C++ backend: Poorly maintained, most problematic
        - Database problems, various indices, performance issues
        - Hard to work on it without access to the DB
        - Could do read replica
        - Sometimes resources consumed by people doing automation [?]
  - OfBorg
    - Check every PR
    - Untestable codebase, OfBorg codebase PR backlog
    - @raitobezarius opened OpenCollective to fund a developer to work on it
* NixOps
  - Pseudo-official deployment project, differs from existing deployment systems
  - Can do AWS deployments, others can usually only do NixOS machines
  - Ported to Python 3 with difficulties, mostly abandoned
  - Nobody wants to work on it, everything kind of broken
  - @infinisil: Let's not pretend it's still alive, just park it and let people fork it if they care
  - Anybody against archiving it?
    - Not in this call
    - But should ask @roberth
* NixOS Graphical Installer (Calamares)
  - vlinkz initially created it and maintained it a bit, but not evolving any more
  - Critical security bug discovered, a lot of work went into trying to fix it
  - Full of design issues and bugs
  - Should be up to NixOS release managers
* Documentation
  - Nixpkgs manual
    - stdenv in particular
  - NixOS manual
  - These are having a lot of unmaintained parts
  - @infinisil: I don't think these are doc issues, rather Nixpkgs design issues
* NixOS org projects
  * 
* nixpart
  - Should be archived


## Deciding on next steps
- Agenda for the next meeting:
  - Meeting repeats every month
  - Maybe too synchronous?
    - @hexchen: Some things should be discussed asynchronously, but it's worth having synchronous
    - Maybe switch the days/times to allow more people to participate
      - @infinisil: Recommendation: https://crab.fit/

- What to do with the Matrix channel
  - @raitobezarius: Use Discourse for async discussions instead, drop Matrix
    - Easier to follow on Discourse
    - Reach out to @ryantm for a discourse category
      - Do we need a category for this?
      - Some people don't want the noise of the other categories, like Development
      - General agreement, let's try a separate one
  - Keep the write-only for members?
    - @raitobezarius: Can try write-all, but don't want people not very active stray the discussion
- Publish meeting notes?
  - Yes

## For next time:

- Important items to tackle in the meantime
- Proposal by @tomberek and @fricklerhandwerk to fund teams (15 min)
- Draft RFC to move from nixos.org to nix.dev as the canonical domain name:
  https://github.com/nix-rfc-canonical-domain/rfcs/blob/canonical-domain/rfcs/1000-canonical-domain.md
   - @fricklerhandwerk: I don't think this is worth a synchronous discussion. It's a topic that needs careful consideration, and following the RFC-138-process is very suitable for that

## Action items
- Officially discuss sunsetting NixOps
- Archive dead projects in the NixOS GitHub, like nixpart
  - Create a list in advance then discuss it
- Create discourse category: @raitobezarius
- Post meeting notes in the new discourse category: @infinisil

------

### [Foundation funding for community teams](https://github.com/NixOS/teams-collaboration/issues/2)

Discussion:
- Nobody disagrees
- @raitobezarius: Details are important, what do we lose from this, some teams need more help, some less, etc.
