
## Attendees

| Team                   | Name/handle                     |
| ---                    | ----                            |
| Foundation board       | Th√©ophane (@thufschmitt), Eelco |
| Security               | @mweinelt                       |
| Infra                  | @mweinelt, @zimbatm             |
| NixOS release          |                                 |
| NixCon                 | Ryan (@raitobezarius)           |
| RFC steering committee | @tomberek/@infinisil            |
| Marketing              | @garbas/@tomberek/@djacu        |
| Moderation             | @mweinelt                       |
| Nix team               | Th√©ophane (@thufschmitt), Eelco |
| Documentation          | @infinisil/@fricklerhandwerk    |
| Nixpkgs architecture   | @infinisil                      |
| Nixpkgs                | Ryan (@raitobezarius)           |

## Agenda

- Nix Survey 2024
    - Led by Guillaume Desforges (@gdesforges:matrix.org), organized in the "Nix Community Survey" Matrix channel (https://matrix.to/#/#survey:nixos.org)
    - This year we will tailor the survey to questions the Teams want to ask to the community
    - Please collect questions you'd like to ask to the community with your teams
        - No "open" question with free text answer, only single choice or multiple choices questions
        - Ask anything! Do not second-guess what can or can't be asked, we'll figure out together
        - Please send **before Jan 22th** to Guillaume directly (@gdesforges:matrix.org) or via the "Nix Community Survey" Matrix channel (https://matrix.to/#/#survey:nixos.org)
        - If you need help, don't hesitate to reach out to Guillaume directly (@gdesforges:matrix.org)
    - Thanks a lot for your help <3 looking forward to your great questions to make Nix/NixOS better!
- Discuss the [team funding scheme](https://github.com/NixOS/teams-collaboration/issues/2)
- Confirm the [list of projects to deprecate](https://pad.lassul.us/_O7BJW5mR56pM41u3nW3ZQ) in the org (https://github.com/NixOS/teams-collaboration/issues/1)
- @zimbatm: Do you need anything from the infra team?

## Team funding scheme

- Presentation of https://github.com/NixOS/teams-collaboration/issues/2 by @tomberek
- @zimbatm: How much money does the Fundation have right now?
    - @raito: Part of the idea is to have that money come from direct fundraising
- @garbas: Problem of mixing volunteer work and paid work. How do we manage that?
    - @raito: We all are volunteers on things that are fun, but there's also grunt work that's not taken care of.
            That amount of money would allow addressing that.
            We also already have that bc of external grants (NlNet). We're just making that kind of things easier to get for people, so it's actually decreasing the unfairness.
- @garbas: It's nice for teams to have a budget, but maybe having a budget per project would make more sense
    - @raito: We could do both, then it becomes an arbitration problem
    - Problem with project-based approach: Some entity has to decide the allocations. That's not a problem with team-based budget
    - Is there a project that doesn't correspond to a team?
    - @garbas: Flakes. Requires implementation, doc, marketing
- @garbas: Risk of teams spending their budget on nonsense just to make sure they don't loose it
- @tomberek: Not for large-scale projects, start with small-scale, e.g. signing up for services. More accountability is only needed once a person gets the funds
- @zimbatm:
    - The bullshit-spending issue can be worked around with transparency
    - Is there a project that we can use to bootstrap this process? So that it's not just a theoretical discussion
- @tomberek:
    - a "large scale" example: https://github.com/NixOS/foundation/issues/107
    - small scale: ask the teams......
        - NAT: delegating tasks, not small scale, needs accountability
        - Nixpkgs: OfBorg, PAM, Hydra
            - "pizza payments" as appreciation and thank you
        - Marketing: Newsletter currently paid personally
        - Documentation: editing work for videos, graphics
- @djacu (in chat):
    - Regarding "losing your budget", from what I've seen, teams that get a budget and spend it on unnecessary things is because they are incentivized to do so. The problem is that if they don't spend their budget, then "obviously" they don't need that much money and their budget is reduced the following year. If teams weren't punished for spending their budget but budgets were just assigned each cycle appropriately and assuming everyone was being honest, then I think you can avoid that problem. 
- @raito:
    - Agree with Dan
    - Examples of things to fund
        - OfBorg ü§ñ
        - Hydra üèóÔ∏è
        - PAM NixOS module :fire:
        - nginx NixOS module (RFC42)
- @thufschmitt: 5k may not be enough for some, or too much for others
    - Useful at least to Marketing or NixOS

- @djacu (replying to @tomberek in chat)
    - @tomberek
        - can alleviate the problem by starting with small amounts? 
    - @djacu
        - Small amounts is certainly a good way to start as we are figuring things out, but eventually all the teams will be using large amount of the budget.
        - The long term view when teams don't use their entire budget is to accept that estimation is hard, the future is hard to predict, and shit happens. 

- @raito: Some infra ends-up being owned by individuals because it's easier. But that's bad
    - We shouldn't put an upper bound on what teams can request because different teams can have different needs
  - @infinisil: foundation should only hold root credentials (e.g. DNS records), delegate everything else (e.g. SSH access to machines)

- @thufschmitt: How would we define which teams get money?

- @jonas
    - Meta-point: Do we want to wrap-up the discussion to give time for other things -> Seek concensus?
    - @infinisil: Probably RFC material here
    - @raito: Very useful input for the Foundation
- @fricklerhandverk
    - Main questions:
        - Does the fundation has 50k to spend on this?
          - @infinisil: Specific amount doesn't matter, it's flexible
- Which teams would benefit from that?
    - Marketing: Newsletter substcription
    - Doc: Video editing

- @zimbatm: We can use the existing process to re-imburse out-of-pocket payments with the issue tracker
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Too slow
  - @edolstra: There's an administrative assistant now, should be faster
  - That still gets paid out of pocket, not really a budget
- @thufschmitt: Wouldn't work for larger payments for working hours
  - @fricklerhandwerk: On one hand, how fast is the payment, and does one need to ask for everything. A payment request is just asking for the money.
- @thufschmitt: Could have a baseline say 200euro for each team that gets paid without questions asked
  - General agreement
  - Needs to be requested though and state basic purpose
  - @garbas: How is this transparent?
    - @zimbatm: Could use individual opencollective projects for teams


- @thufschmitt: what are the official projects? do we use nix-community as incubator?
    - archive and clean old projects that are not relevant
        - reviewing...., will be done async, ping everyone
    - nixops: update, that roberth has plans
    - installer:
    - home-manager:
    - nix-darwin:

- @zimbatm - any cross-team requests?
    - infra team:
    - survey instance on AWS (limesurvey, can we upgrade?)

- newsletter
